---
title: "A Taiji Primer"
date: 2020-04-01
byline: "Taiji as self-care"

---
Malta is the first nation-state to vocally and fully support the exploration of cryptocurrencies and blockchains. Joseph Muscat, the island's Prime Minister, gave [a speech](https://www.coindesk.com/maltas-prime-minister-hails-crypto-as-future-of-money-in-un-speech) at the UN last week where he told the General Assembly: “Blockchain makes cryptocurrencies the inevitable future of money, more transparent since it helps filter good businesses from bad businesses.” The Assembly will shrug off the PM's splash, but this emphatic stance makes sense--and tells us something important about Bitcoin's future--if you understand that Malta has lived symbiotically with the longest-lived stateless nation in the world: the Sovereign Military Order of Malta (whose full name reads: Sovereign Military Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, of Rhodes and of Malta). I'll just call them the Order.

They've survived [ten centuries](https://www.orderofmalta.int/history/), which makes them older than most nation states you've heard of. They started as an organization to help pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem: they provided medical care, military protection, and engaged in trade along the way. We can think of them as a movable conglomerate where the main business was religion, or perhaps the first international NGO meets the Green Berets. They had no geographical home, and moved from place to place, surviving only to defend their Christian faith and provide for the poor. They were, and remain to this day, a nation distributed around the world, whose mission is their reason for existence. Sparing you the ten centuries of history, today they are a major charity, employing 42,000 people around the world. Members of the Order number around 13,500. By surviving for almost 10 centuries with this approach, they've given the world an example of a sovereign nation without a geographical home, but united by a mission. (Another example would the Nizari Ismailis, represented by their patriarch and billionaire Aga Khan IV.)

The Order issues its own passports and currency, and is a recognized sovereign nation at UN, and maintains diplomatic relations with other countries. All in order to continue its work and retain its status as a sovereign nation. Their central mission today is charity, plain and simple. Their home is the island of Malta. After millenia of invasions and intermittent foreign rule, Malta--the country--became independent from the British in 1964 and an EU member is 2004.

I think Malta recognizes the benefits of distributed currencies that operate irrespective of national borders as the core value proposition of the Order, upgraded to the 21st century. Additionally, Malta the country sees an unfriendly regulatory environment worldwide as an incredible opportunity. Muscat called the rise of cryptocurrencies "inevitable", a rather strong statement if you consider the [familiarity level](https://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-crypto-us-senate-hearing-february-2018) of the US Senate.

To have a nation state openly discuss and pass legislation supporting cryptocurrencies is a small but significant victory for the crypto community. But there is also an important lesson here. One cannot smash crypto-monetary networks into any society's operations and expect everything to lock into place. Institutions who already operate this way will adopt bitcoin and explore other blockchain based systems more avidly than others, since they don't need to be convinced of the use cases of a global currency. And that currency won't just be a toy--it'll be intrinsic to that nation's work and identity, and supersede currencies that depend on location. I leave aside the monetary aspects of bitcoin here to focus on its operational utility to sovereign nations, but it is very likely that small nations will adopt bitcoin much faster than other nations. This makes Malta's bet all the more sincere, and likely to succeed: to the extent that we identify a symbiotic relationship between the Order of Malta with the nation-state of Malta, it is the first nation to have "soul in the game" in crypto. Remember, innovation always makes the existing solution look totally obsolete, and so the new monetary world will be driven by stateless nations, global organizations, and countries on the fringes of the world's economic system.
